>> Erik Reinert: The objective of this
course is really to gain real world full
stack deployment experience.
I wanna take this from
a different perspective,
which is not just like, hey,
let's just build something and
take away what you can from
that one thing that you built.
This course is more focused on
going through the evolution of
infrastructure and going through
the evolution of an application.
So we're actually going to be
seeing infrastructure grow and
change from the startup phase, the growth
phase, the scale stages and all of that.
So that's really what I want you to gain
or take away from this course is not just
to be able to build an application, but
actually understand why we built or
deployed the application
the way that we did.
My name is Erik Reinert, also known
as Blackglasses on the Internet.
I'm a senior software engineer.
I'm a content creator.
I enjoy making diagrams and flowcharts and
I'm a habitual problem solver.
It's one of my favorite things to do,
which is a big reason why I
am in the career I am today.
I started out as a Frontend engineer.
I did that for about two and a half years.
I worked with Frontend before
React was even a thing.
PHP days, good old PHP days.
And then I kinda realized
that I hated that.
And so I ended up moving from front end
and learning kind of that experience and
what I gained from it to backend
engineering where I then started working
on backends and
learning things like Typescript and Go,
learning how to build more communication
between systems and stuff like that.
And then I kind of follow that into full
stack and I did that for a while as well.
I worked at a startup where I was kind of
lead POC on a lot of the things that we
were trying to do to get them out.
And then again I kind of had, if you
notice a little bit of a pattern here
of almost every two and a half years I get
bored and then I go do something else.
And so that's what I was doing.
And this is kind of why I like
talking about this really quickly is I
don't think any of us have
deterministic paths in this career.
Someday you might wanna
be a Frontend engineer,
someday you might wanna do Backend,
you might wanna do other things.
And so that was a big reason are a big
part of why I kept jumping so much was
because I kept following that curiosity
which led me to really what I do now,
which is DevOps and Platform Engineering.
I focus very heavily on solving business
problems, solving them at scale and
solving developer problems as well,
which is something I again,
throughout the years of working in
multiple areas, I kinda learned and got to
grow and understand what people hate
because I hated a lot of that stuff too.
So yeah, just a note about if
you're ever wondering about should
I get into DevOps or anything like that,
this is kind of how I got into it.
I do have three of my own courses
that are on the platform.
I try and
stay in my own world a little bit, but
I do like to branch out as much as I can.
I have introduction to DevOps for
developers,
enterprise Cloud Infrastructure and
Introduction to Backend Architectures
if you're curious about the courses.
Basically, introduction to DevOps for
developers is really focused on
devs who wanna get into DevOps.
You've never built pipelines before,
you've never learned how to automate
things or anything like that.
It's a great course to
get started with again,
can help with some of
this stuff we do today.
Enterprise Cloud Infrastructure.
This one's really focused on, okay, I'm at
a company now, I'm managing tons of teams.
How do I go to scale?
This is, I would say, a little bit beyond
the course that we're doing today,
but you can kinda see how we get
to there after this course and
then Introduction to
Backend Architectures.
So if you've ever been curious
about how do I build backends,
how do I make sure that they're
communicating properly,
how do I scale them properly,
all of that kind of stuff.
Introduction to Backend Architectures
is a pretty good one to check out too.
And again, these all really kind of relate
to each other, so if you're interested,
be sure to check them out.
So yeah,
let's get into the course introduction.
I wanted to use this GIF because I
felt like it was pretty appropriate.
We're gonna be doing a lot today,
[LAUGH] so strap in.
I hope you guys are excited.
This course is a heavy,
heavy workshop course.
It really is focused on being hands-on.
So yeah, there are a few prerequisites for
this course, but
they're also really basic.
I wouldn't be too stressed
about any of these prereqs.
They're just really checklists really.
If you have a little bit of a fundamental
knowledge of Docker, that's fine.
I really only expect you to have ran the
CLI and maybe built one container image.
I don't expect you to know what linking
is and volumes and none of that, but just
a good understanding why you're using it
and having maybe ran a Docker file or two.
Experience using Git and GitHub, we're
gonna be working with source control.
We're gonna be using GitHub as
where all that source control goes,
as well as all of our automation.
So GitHub and
Git are tied together on this one.
A basic understanding of Amazon.
And when I say basic, I mean very basic.
I do not expect you to
be some cloud architect.
I do not expect you to know all of
the resources in Amazon and if you do,
that's amazing.
I don't, but yeah, just a basic
understanding of maybe used it once or
twice, set up the CLI, stuff like that.
Command-line and scripting experience.
Again, very simple, use the command-line,
know that you've used it,
having messed around with it a little bit.
And same thing with scripting.
There's only one real script in the entire
course, but it's a little bit of a doozy.
So I'd like to make sure that
you at least understand it.
AWS account, this is really just for
the actual course itself,
something that you can
provision resources in.
I do wanna be clear.
We will be provisioning
things that cost money.
Sorry, them's the ways of cloud.
The course is really focused on making
sure that you can at least delete
everything.
Everything's on the free tier, so
don't worry about breaking your wallet or
anything like that.
We're not provisioning 32
core instances or anything.
But yeah, just an AWS account.
Make sure that you can create stuff and
all of that.
Also GCP account,
we're only really using it just for
the credential side, but
being able to log in and access a project.
And then again Supabase as well with
a free plan, you might be like,
why are we using Amazon and Supabase?
Don't worry, we'll get into it later.
But yeah, those are really
all the things that you need.
The three phases that we're gonna be
going into are the start-up phase,
the growth phase and then the scale phase.
So the start-up phase is really
just the tried and true.
Just get it working, right?
That's the whole point
of the start-up phase.
And what we're gonna do and what we're
gonna focus on is just plain and simple,
just get it working.
I just wanna get my app online,
I just wanna get it running in production.
I just wanna make sure that
it can easily be accessible.
I don't wanna worry about hosting things
or resources or cloud or any of that.
Just get it working.
The growth phase, we got to go fast.
Okay, now it's working great, fantastic.
We got to keep pushing code,
we got to keep making changes,
we got to keep delivering features.
This is normally the next part of
the evolution of an application.
Hopefully, right, you make it, you get it
online, and then after you get it online,
you start dealing with growth and
how to handle that.
Then again, the last phase,
scale phase is really plan for the future.
Normally when you start
dealing with scale,
you're starting to think about how much
traffic will we have a year from now?
How much traffic are we dealing with
between now and a year from now?
Where are we gonna be as a company?
Right, all of these kind of
things take into consideration.
So I do have links online for
all of the materials, so
if you need them, you can access them.
The main link that you will need is just
gitHub.com/ALT-F4-LLC/fem-fd-service.
That's the main root repo.
So if you guys wanna go ahead and
pull that up now, feel free.
Each phase in this course is
set up into its own branch.
Now we're gonna start
with the main branch, so
we're just gonna start with
the default main branch.
But if you want to skip ahead and look
really quickly at the other branches to
see the final results of what we're gonna
be doing, you're more than welcome to.
Or if after the course later on you
wanna go back and reference it,
you're more than welcome to as well.
And again, like I said,
each stage has its own branch that
I've been maintaining for this.